revising security section (#433)
portworx/pxdocs: content/concepts/authorization/overview.md

---
title: Security Overview
description: Security concepts and features available within Portworx
keywords: portworx, security, ownership, tls, rbac, claims, jwt, oidc
weight: 10
series: authorization
---
## Introduction

> Portworx has enhanced authN/authZ security as of version 2.1 called PX-Security. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of version 2.1, Portworx features enhanced authN/authZ security called PX-Security. This
```

section provides a high-level overview of the concepts behind securing a Portworx
cluster.

In addition to PX-Security, in order to enhance security further, consideration should
also be made of securing other key Portworx components, such as the KVDB (usually etcd),
and is discussed [in this section](/reference/knowledge-base/etcd/#securing-with-certificates-in-kubernetes).

## Overview

Our PX-Security feature centers around the ubiquitous JWT-based authentication and
authorization mechanisms. These security techniques are leveraged by many IT systems
and are a proven model for user/account identification and permissioning.

Within a Portworx Cluster with PX-Security enabled, a storage-client entity (user)
first authenticates with a token authority (TA), which generates a token for the

> user , signed using either a private key or a shared secret. The user then provides

Reviewer: ```suggestion
user, signed using either a private key or a shared secret. The user then provides
```

this token to Portworx for identification. **No passwords are ever transmitted to
Portworx**.

This approach allows Portworx to only have to verify the validity of a token issued
to a user for Portworx to be able to authenticate the user (as it is configured to

> trust the private key/shared key only the TA would also have).  Portworx discards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
trust the private key/shared key only the TA would also have). Portworx discards
```

tokens after validation thus **tokens are never saved on a Portworx system**.

The token also contains a _claims_ section which not only positively identifies who
the user is, but also provides authorization information in role-based-access-control
(RBAC) form. Portworx uses that RBAC information to determine if the user is
permitted to make their storage-related request.

## Terminology

| Term | Definition |
| ---- | ---------- |
| ACL | Access Control List identifying those accounts which can access a resource|
| claims | Information contained in the payload of the JWT identifying the owner of the request |

> | CO | Container Orchestrator like Kubernetes, Mesosphere, Nomad, etc |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CO | Container Orchestrator like Kubernetes, Mesosphere, Nomad, etc. |
```

| Admin | Has _Write_ access plus the ability to delete the resource. |

For example, `user1` could create a volume and give _Read_ access to `group1`. This
means that only `user1` can mount the volume. However, `group1` can clone the volume.
When a volume is cloned, it is owned by the user who made the request.

## Tokens

A token is a signed set of user-attributes and identification parameters generated by
the Token Authority.  It is provided to a user after successful authentication to the
TA, and the user passes this to Portworx for validation along with their request.

### Validation

For Portworx to verify tokens are valid, they must be signed with either:

* a shared secret
* a RSA private key or
* an ECDSA private key

Portworx must also be configured with the same shared secret or pair of keys since
this is how Portworx knows to trust the TA.

Once Portworx is able to determine the token to be validated was signed by the TA it
is configured to trust, Portworx, by extension, is also able to trust the contents of
the token (due to the user of cryptographic signatures that are part of the token),
and it then accepts the identity of the user providing the token.

### Sources

> Portworx supports two sources for token generation: either via the industry-standard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Portworx supports two sources for token generation: via the industry-standard
```

> _OpenID Connect_ and using _self-generated_ tokens.

Reviewer 2: should this be 'or' instead of 'and'?

Author: I wondered the same thing, but then elsewhere in the docs, it mentions it supports both at the same time (i am guessing that the internal stork communication uses a self-generated token, irrespective if you also set up OpenID Connect, so i would presume it have the ability to use both simultaneously?

Reviewer: It shouldn't lead with "either" if it supports both.

OpenID Connect (OIDC) is a stand-alone extension of the OAuth2 standard for user
authentication/management and is the preferred solution for enterprise customers as
it allows user-federation into corporate user management/identity provider systems
like Active Directory, LDAP directories, etc.

The other option is simply using self-generated tokens, where the administrator would
manually generate a token for each user using their own TA application. For
convenience, Portworx provides a method of generating tokens using `pxctl`.

While both can be used, choosing one over the other of these options is a trade-off
between scaleability and simplicity.  Whereas integrating with OpenID connect can be
initially complex, it is the superior solution once in place and is enterprise grade,

> while using only the simpler self-signed token approach will requires manual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
while using only the simpler self-signed token approach requires manual
```

management of users/tokens and does not scale very well beyond a handful of
identities.

#### OpenID Connect (OIDC)

> With its ability to manage anywhere from tens to thousands of users, it is strongly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With its ability to manage anywhere from tens to thousands of users, Portworx strongly
```

> recommended that enterprise customers enable PX-Security with an OpenID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
recommends that enterprise customers enable PX-Security with an OpenID
```

Connect service. There are multiple public and private OIDC providers. Customers

> could use public providers such as [Okta.com](https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api/oidc/), [Auth0.com](https://auth0.com/docs/protocols/oidc), etc, or private provider software such as [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/securing_apps/index.html#openid-connect-2), [Dex](https://github.com/dexidp/dex#dex---a-federated-openid-connect-provider), [CloudFoundry UAA](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/uaa#cloudfoundry-user-account-and-authentication-uaa-server), or [Tremolo Security OpenUnison](https://www.tremolosecurity.com/docs/tremolosecurity-docs/1.0.15/openunison/openunison-manual.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can use public providers such as:
* [Okta.com](https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api/oidc/)
* [Auth0.com](https://auth0.com/docs/protocols/oidc)

Customers can also use private provider software such as:
* [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/securing_apps/index.html#openid-connect-2)
* [Dex](https://github.com/dexidp/dex#dex---a-federated-openid-connect-provider)
* [CloudFoundry UAA](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/uaa#cloudfoundry-user-account-and-authentication-uaa-server)
* [Tremolo Security OpenUnison](https://www.tremolosecurity.com/docs/tremolosecurity-docs/1.0.15/openunison/openunison-manual.html)
```
